# Teleoperation-of-Robotic-Hand-With-Haptic-Feedback-Technology
The main aim of this project is to design an intelligent data glove to control a wireless robotic hand with haptic feedback. This data glove can be practically linked to any system to form a control unit that can be manipulated over a wide range. The robotic hand introduces the haptic feedback technology by adding pressure sensors on the fingertips of the robotic hand. The feedback system will allow the user to sense their environment with some form of sensation enabling them to get a better feel of reality. The feedback selected is the haptic where the user putting on the glove will feel touch sensations if the end-effector touches something. Practically a distance of 90 feet is viable for operation.
The sensor glove has sensors and Arduino microcontroller embedded onto it. The actions done by the user will be sensed by flex sensors and Arduino will process the information. The IDE used for doing the software is Arduino’s own IDE called Arduino. On the receiver’s side is a robotic hand that will mimic the actions of the sensor glove over finite degrees of freedom (DOF). The wireless communication protocol used between the glove and robotic hand is ZIGBEE. This protocol enables to have mesh-network systems and transmit data over a longer distance giving the sensor glove a wider range to communicate with the robotic hand. The robotic hand senses pressure on its own finger tips and palm and gives the readings to the sensor glove. Apart from sensors, the sensor glove also has vibration motors that vibrate if the robotic hand’s force sensors feel any force – thus generating touch-feedback mechanism.
